docs(adr): add ADR for dispatch version-skew resolution (#2453)
konflux-ci/fullsend: docs/ADRs/0062-dispatch-version-skew.md

Reviewer: **HIGH — ADR number collision.** Three open PRs claim ADR 0058: this one (#2453), #1580 (public mint mode), and #2743 (config presets). The PR title also says "ADR 55" but the file is numbered 0058.

Run `/renumber-adr` before merge to claim the next available number.

Author: Renumbered to 0060. Updated all references in ADR, plans, and architecture.md.

Reviewer: **HIGH — ADR number collision (again).** `0061-harness-cel-dispatch.md` already exists on `main` (merged 2026-06-23). The renumbering from 0058→0061 moved the collision to a different occupied slot.

Rebase onto current `main` and run `/renumber-adr` — next available appears to be **0062**. All five files in the PR reference 0061 and will need updating: this file (rename + title + frontmatter), `0048-automatic-updates.md` (cross-ref link), `architecture.md` (bullet link), `automatic-updates.md` (amendment link), and `merge-stage-workflows.md` (title + body).

Author: Done.

---
title: "58. Resolving per-repo dispatch version skew"
status: Accepted
relates_to: []
topics:
  - versioning
  - workflows
  - per-repo
  - dispatch
---

# 58. Resolving per-repo dispatch version skew

Date: 2026-06-25

## Status

> Accepted

Reviewer: **MEDIUM — Missing `architecture.md` update.** Status is Accepted — convention requires a "Decided:" entry in `docs/architecture.md`. The dispatch section (lines 42, 47) describes the current dispatch chain. Add something like:

```markdown
- Dispatch version-skew resolution: per-repo `reusable-dispatch.yml` inlines stage
  workflow jobs directly, eliminating `@v0` references to `reusable-{stage}.yml`
  ([ADR 0058](ADRs/0058-dispatch-version-skew.md)).
```

Author: Fixed — added Decided entry in architecture.md under the infrastructure section.

1. Branch from `main`.
2. Rewrite all `uses: ...@v0` to `uses: ...@vX.Y.Z` in `reusable-dispatch.yml`.
3. Update default values for `fullsend_version`, etc.
4. Commit, tag the branch with `vX.Y.Z` and `latest`.

**Rejected** Introduces significant repository-level complexity.

### D. Merge stage workflows into dispatch

Inline all six stage workflows as conditional jobs directly inside
`reusable-dispatch.yml`. The `uses:` lines to stage workflows disappear
entirely.

This impacts per-org mode as its workflows reference directly `reusable-<stage>.yml`.

**Accepted** Removes the problem completely at the cost of a large file. This file
can be eventually simplified to make it easier to handle.

## Decision

The decision is to merge the stage workflows into the dispatch workflow to avoid the
version skew it introduced in the first place.

However as per-org mode is deprecated (see ADR 44),
`reusable-<stage>.yml` will be kept to allow per-org mode continue to work. When
per-org mode is removed, then `reusable-<stage>.yml` files will be removed. During
the deprecation period `reusable-<stage>.yml` file need to be in sync
with the merged `reusable-triage.yml`.

> 
> ## Implementation

Reviewer: **HIGH — Typo: `reusable-triage.yml` should be `reusable-dispatch.yml`.** Triage is one of the stage files being merged *into* dispatch — it's not the merge target. This line should read:

```suggestion
the deprecation period `reusable-<stage>.yml` files need to be in sync
with the merged `reusable-dispatch.yml`.
```

(Also fixes the grammar: "file need" → "files need".)

Author: Fixed — changed to `reusable-dispatch.yml` and corrected 'file need' → 'files need'.

possible.

### C. Release branches with ref rewriting

Change the release process to create a release branch where `@v0` references
in `reusable-dispatch.yml` are rewritten to `@vX.Y.Z` before tagging.

1. Branch from `main`.
2. Rewrite all `uses: ...@v0` to `uses: ...@vX.Y.Z` in `reusable-dispatch.yml`.
3. Update default values for `fullsend_version`, etc.
4. Commit, tag the branch with `vX.Y.Z` and `latest`.

**Rejected** Introduces significant repository-level complexity.

### D. Merge stage workflows into dispatch

Inline all six stage workflows as conditional jobs directly inside
`reusable-dispatch.yml`. The `uses:` lines to stage workflows disappear
entirely.

This impacts per-org mode as its workflows reference directly `reusable-<stage>.yml`.

**Accepted** Removes the problem completely at the cost of a large file. This file
can be eventually simplified to make it easier to handle.

## Decision

The decision is to merge the stage workflows into the dispatch workflow to avoid the
version skew it introduced in the first place.

However as per-org mode is deprecated (see ADR 44),
`reusable-<stage>.yml` will be kept to allow per-org mode continue to work. When

> per-org mode is removed, then `reusable-<stage>.yml` files will be removed. During

Reviewer: **MEDIUM — Grammar: missing "to" in infinitive.** Flagged in the prior review round and not yet fixed.

```suggestion
`reusable-<stage>.yml` will be kept to allow per-org mode to continue to work. When
```

Also, line 78 is missing a comma: "However as" → "However, as".

Author: Sorry, missed and fixed.

the deprecation period `reusable-<stage>.yml` files need to be in sync
with the merged `reusable-dispatch.yml`.

## Implementation

See [merge-stage-workflows plan](../plans/merge-stage-workflows.md).

## Consequences

> * `reusable-<stage>.yml` stage logic is inlined into `reusable-dispatch.yml`; standalone files are retained until per-org mode is removed per ADR 44.

Reviewer: **MEDIUM — Consequence #2 near-duplicates Consequence #1.** Bullet 1 already says "standalone files are retained until per-org mode is removed per ADR 44." Bullet 2 says essentially the same thing with different wording.

The Consequences section has only 2 bullets (target: 3-5). Consider deduplicating and adding missing consequences:
- `reusable-dispatch.yml` grows significantly in size (acknowledged in Option D but not listed)
- `reusable-dispatch.yml` and `reusable-<stage>.yml` must stay in sync during the deprecation period

Removing the filler sentence in Context ("This ADR presents a few options...") would also bring the line count from 80 to 78, safely under the target.

Author: Done.
